#job #mycobrewery #startaeget #career #personaldevelopment #oatly

Will I regret that I didn't dare to start my own business? Would it feel like I should have done it and caved in for the safe option? 
Or would I be happy to have a job that uses my expertise well? A team that is friendly and works together, a good work environment, and products that I like? And that I don't have to deal with all the parts of running a business that I know I wouldn't enjoy. Now I can really focus on being a researcher again.
What is the worst that could happen? We move to Helsingborg and don't like it as much as Gothenburg. But we can explore new areas and new things. I make a ton of connections at Oatly and with other companies, gain insights into the industry, use my scientific expertise, etc. I have a safe income that I can put towards good things and don't have to worry about anything else than what's going on in the 8 hours of work. During the commute I can read and listen to music, in the evenings I don't have to think or worry about work things. I am excited about being in a lab again, having colleagues, discussing projects, doing good work and feeling like I accomplished something. People are excited when I tell them I work at Oatly. I can still do some Reko ring or small scale production and knowledge sharing, if that's something I want to keep up. 

Ideal situation: 
We find a nice apartment in Helsingborg that allows me to have a relatively short commute. I arrange for working from home 2 days a week. Or we even stay mainly in GBG and I work in the lab Mon-Wed and come home Thu-Son. We still see our friends occasionally, but we also make new nice friends. It's exciting to see new places and we take the ferry and the trains all over the place. At work I feel at home in the lab and I like the planning and setting up experiments. The work is a bit unstructured but allows for own planning and direction, and the team leader is very open to input. I am doing exciting things and can look into different areas that I think are interesting. Oatly has some exciting plans that I can be a part in realising. If I decide to leave in a few years, I have a lot of new experience in the field and am much better set up to consult in the area. 
--> Helsingborg is probably nice, if probably a bit more boring than GBG. But there are better connections to other places. Pay is good and we save money to put into nice holidays. Time management is flexible and I don't feel like I'm slaving my life away. 

Worst situation:
Helsingborg is boring and we don't find new friends. The commute is longer than expected and tedious. Due to Covid, it's hard to find myself part of the team, and the whole situtation is a bit unorganised and chaotic. Nevertheless, pressure to produce results is on, since Oatly is expanding massively. I have to look into a lot of patents and literature stuff and it's super boring. When I'm in the lab, things don't work properly and it's super tedious. The things I should investigate don't really interest me much, like how to make oat milk production 2% faster. Someone else is doing a "Mycobrewery" in Gothenburg and I feel like I missed a chance. After half a year I want to quit, but I can't because that would look really bad on my CV. 
--> Not very likely that we absolutely hate it in HB. Also not very likely that I absolutely hate it at Oatly. But of course I have forgotten how annoying it can be to work in the lab, when experiments fail and you don't know why. The feeling of wasting resources for nothing. The feeling of not really contributing much to anything. 