#job #mycobrewery #startaeget #career #personaldevelopment #oatly

Would I be in a constant state of anxiety because I think I can't do it properly, my products are not good enough, I don't have enough customers, I don't earn enough to cover my costs, I have to look for new customers etc etc. 
Or would I learn to live with these fears and manage to take it easy and enjoy it? What is the worst thing that could happen? I have savings and most likely get starta eget stöd for at least half a year. That allows me to try out things and see how it goes. I can do everything exactly how I want to. I can produce what I want, design packages and labels how I want, market it how I want, give courses. I can work together with other people on exciting projects, visit different places that produce things, source new materials, learn from others, teach others, exchange knowledge, exchange products, make people excited about my field, etc. 
With this work I can contribute to making exciting local things, which is something that people (including me) really like and want to buy. I get excited about soda from GBG, chocolates from GBG, so why not fermented food things from GBG?

Ideal situation: 
I have a nice production place that I can set up how I like it. It's a nice space and I enjoy being there. It's clean and bright and different things are going on. I make great products that I neatly package and deliver to different places. It sells well and people love my stuff. It's fun to experiment around and I have established a subscription system where I can try out new products. There's a nice community of other people producing local delicacies. I'm excited about doing some new projects in the summer, like doing a food truck with some friends/colleagues, giving some courses, etc. I am building a whole little speciality shop with all fermented products. We live in our nice apartment and I have a little odlingslott at Frihamnen. 
There are occasional consultancy gigs that are paying well, and where people want to me look into fermentation-related subjects. I also teach a university course in food fermentation. I'm still doing my fungi newsletter and I'm up to date and involved in the alternative protein field. 
It's good that I started this business because people are really interested in fermented food products, for health and taste reasons, and I even think about opening a web shop. 
--> I think it's likely that the interest for fermented food products is only growing and that people are excited about GBG-produced products. Of course it will be a hassle to sell things, but maybe it's also fun to get people excited about my products. In between the production I have enough time to work on other projects that are related to my area of expertise and I feel like I'm contributing to the field and it's nice to collaborate with other people. 

Worst situation: 
I try to get something going, but the interest is not really there. I get a bit bored making food and worry that people don't like the taste or that it goes bad. It doesn't sell well and I stand at REKO Ring and sell 5 jars. In between it's a lot of hustling and I don't feel like I'm doing enough intellectually challenging things or using my knowledge best. Consultancy gigs are sparse, I just don't have the industry knowledge that companies want. I invested quite a lot of money into the business and haven't earned much. 
--> Producing and selling the products will at times feel a bit menial and like not what I actually want to do. It's hard work and it feels like it's not paying off. My former colleagues are working in fancy labs and chat about interesting topics, whereas I am making another 100 kg batch of Sauerkraut. 